[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Copilot-Language/Copilot.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Copilot-Language/Copilot)

Copilot: a stream DSL
====================================
Copilot is a stream (i.e., infinite lists) domain-specific language (DSL) in
Haskell that compiles into embedded C.  Copilot is similar in spirit to
languages like Lustre.  Copilot contains an interpreter, multiple back-end
compilers, and other verification tools.

Resources
=========
Copilot is comprised of a number of sub-projects which are automatically
installed when you install Copilot from Hackage, as described below.  (These are
tracked as Git submodules in Copilot.)

* [copilot-language](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/copilot-language) The
  front-end of Copilot defining the user language.

* [copilot-libraries](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/copilot-libraries)
  User-supplied libraries for Copilot, including linear-temporal logic,
  fault-tolerant voting, regular expressions, etc.

* [copilot-core](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/copilot-core) The core
  language, which efficiently represents Copilot expressions.  The core is only
  of interest to implementers wishing to add a new back-end to Copilot.

* [copilot-cbmc](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/copilot-cbmc) A tool to
  generate a driver using CBMC, a third-party tool (see Dependencies below) that
  proves that the code generated by different C back-ends is equivalent.
  Currently, this includes the C99 back-end and the SBV back-end.

* [copilot-c99](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/copilot-c99) A back-end that
  translates to [Atom](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/atom) to
  generate hard real-time C code.

Optionally, you may which also to install

* [copilot-sbv](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/copilot-sbv) Another back-end
  that translates to [SBV](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/sbv), using its
  code generator to generate hard real-time C code as well.  The ad

* [copilot-discussion](https://github.com/Copilot-Language/copilot-discussion)
  Contains a tutorial, todos, and other items regarding the Copilot system.

**Sources** for each package are available on Github as well.  Just go to
[Github](github.com) and search for the package of interest.  Feel free to fork!

Comments, bug reports, and patches are always welcome.  Send them to leepike @
gmail.com

Examples
=========
Please see the files under the Examples directory for a number of examples
showing the syntax, use of libraries, and use of the interpreter and back-ends.
The examples is the best way to start.

Installation
============

* From Hackage:

  The Copilot library is cabalized. Assuming you have cabal and the GHC compiler
  installed (the [Haskell Platform](http://hackage.haskell.org/platform/) is the
  easiest way to obtain these), it should merely be a matter of running

           cabal install copilot

  with an Internet connection.  Please see the INSTALL file for installation
  details.

* From GitHub:

           git clone https://github.com/Copilot-Language/Copilot.git
           git submodule update --init
           make test

Once the installation is done, you can run the executable `XXX` which will
execute the regression test suite for sbv on your machine.

Note there is a TravisCI build (linked to at the top of this README) if you have
trouble building/installing.

Dependencies
=============
copilot-cbmc depends on the C model-checker, CBMC.
[CBMC](http://www.cprover.org/cbmc/) is a bounded model-checker for C code.  We
use CBMC to prove that two back-ends generating C generate semantically
equivalent C, to help detect bugs in C back-ends.

For compiling it with CompCert (activated by default for SBV backend), you need
to install it, with its Standard C library ( http://compcert.inria.fr/ ).

Copyright, License
==================
Copilot is distributed with the BSD3 license. The license file contains the
[BSD3](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BSD_licenses) verbiage.

Contributions
=============
Feel free to open new issues and send pull requests.

In order to contribute to Copilot, please use the following steps which will
make the process of evaluating and including your changes much easier:

* Create an issue for every individual change or problem with Copilot. Document
  the issue well.

* Always comment on the issues you are addressing in every commit. Be
  descriptive, and use the syntax `#<issue_number>` so that we can track
  changes and issues easily.

* Every commit should mention one issue and, ideally, only one.

* Do not send a PR or commit that addresses multiple problems, unless they are
  related and cannot be separated.

* Do not commit to master directly, except for branch merges. Make sure you
  always merge onto master using `--no-ff` so that we can tell that features
  were addressed separately, completed, tested, and then merged.  If you are a
  Copilot developer, create a branch for every issue you are addressing, complete
  it, and then merge onto master. Document every commit in every branch,
  including the last merge commit, stating the issues it addresses or closes.

This process is similar to [Git
Flow](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/). The equivalent
of Git Flow's master branch is our latest tag, and the equivalent of Git Flow's
develop branch is our master.

Thanks
======
Copilot was developed, in part, with support from NASA's Aviation Safety
Program, Contract #NNL08AD13T.  Copilot was developed jointly by Galois,
Inc. and the National Institute of Aerospace.

The following people have contributed to Copilot: Lee Pike, Nis Wegmann,
Sebastian Niller, Robin Morisset, Alwyn Goodloe, Levent Erkok and Frank Dedden.
